TITLE (80 char limit, currently 76)

Show HN: I measured my agent guardrail against 36,977 real commands


BODY (paste into the text field, leave the URL field pointing at https://provenrail.com/claude-code-guardrails)

I have been maintaining a guardrail plugin for coding agents. It blocked rm -rf, terraform destroy, force pushes, DROP TABLE, committed keys. The usual list. I had never checked whether that list was the right one, or what it cost.

So I checked both halves.

For the false positives I pulled every Bash command my own agents had actually run out of my local transcripts. 36,977 of them, across 1,247 sessions, replayed offline with the working directory each one ran in. My shipped rules interrupted 923 and refused 305. Reading the samples was unpleasant. rm -rf .next out before a build, denied. rm -f coverage.xml, escalated. chmod +x on a script, denied because a UUID in the path contained the digits 4732 and the pattern was scanning the whole line for three octal digits. wrangler deploy --dry-run, escalated. A Tailwind class reading "min-w-0 truncate text-sm", denied as a SQL TRUNCATE. Two rules, both about rm, accounted for 687 of the 923.

For the false negatives I read the data-loss issues people file against Claude Code. That was worse. The command in those reports is almost never rm -rf. It is git reset --hard (#34327, #7232, #17190), git checkout -- . (#81508), git clean -fd (#45974, #87360), git stash (#85879), git worktree remove --force (#46444), prisma migrate reset and artisan migrate:fresh against a live database (#80868, #90808). I ran all of them through my own default rules and every single one was allowed. A guard that stops your build directory and waves through the thing that eats your afternoon is worse than no guard, because you believe it.

The fix for the false positives turned out to be one idea. I was screening the verb. Nobody has ever lost work to the letters rm -rf; they lost it to the target. rm -rf .next regenerates in twelve seconds and rm -rf ~/ ends a laptop, and no pattern can separate those, because the difference is not in the text, it is in where the text points. That needs the working directory, which a hook has and a regex does not.

So rules can now carry a predicate: a named function that sees the same single command the regex matched, plus the call's context, and gets the last word. The delete predicate resolves every target against the repository root. Inside the repo, under a temp root, in a package cache, or in a directory named node_modules/dist/.next/target: allowed silently. A home directory, a whole disk, a two-segment system path, --no-preserve-root, or an unset variable followed by a slash (rm -rf $BUILD/ with BUILD empty is rm -rf /): refused. Leaves the project but is none of those: asks.

The git predicate asks a different question and I think it is the better example. git reset --hard on a tree with nothing uncommitted and nothing unpushed destroys nothing, so the rule should not fire. It runs git status --porcelain, checks git rev-list @{upstream}..HEAD, and asks only when there is work there that exists nowhere else. Eight milliseconds, and only on commands that already matched. Anything it cannot determine counts as at risk, because a guard that could not look has not checked.

Three more things were pure noise and are now gone. Rules about shell commands were reading the content of files being written, so an agent could not write docs/security.md explaining what rm -rf / does, or a migration containing DROP TABLE. A --dry-run and a wrangler d1 execute --local were treated as the act rather than the rehearsal. And the segmenter split commands on operators without tracking quotes, so a newline inside --command "DELETE FROM ... WHERE ..." separated the --local flag that made the call harmless from the statement it qualified, and a local test database got refused five separate times in the corpus.

Same corpus afterwards: 222 interruptions, 16 refusals, and fifteen of the sixteen refusals are my own repo's adversarial test fixtures, files that literally contain rm -rf / as a test payload. On 40 commands taken from those public reports the old rules allowed 40 of 40 and the new ones allow 0 of 40. On 43 ordinary deletes and git operations, 21 were interrupted before and 0 are now. Both corpora are in the test suite, so each claim is a test rather than a sentence in a README, and tools/measure_guard.py runs the same measurement over your own transcripts with no network call in it.

The install is two lines inside Claude Code and there is nothing else to set up:

  /plugin marketplace add pofky/provenrail
  /plugin install provenrail-guard@provenrail

No package, no account, no server, no config file. The plugin carries a stdlib-only copy of the engine so 41 rules are armed on the next tool call, and the decision is computed locally so it never waits on a network. Installing the CLI on top signs the same local history into an Ed25519-chained record that a second, independently written verifier checks in your browser, which is the part I built first and now think of as the second reason to install it rather than the first.

What I would like picked apart:

The predicate is a real widening of what a rule can do, and I have tried to make it only ever narrow a rule: an unknown predicate name evaluates to true, and one that raises evaluates to true, so a bug in that file cannot open a hole that was previously closed. I would like someone to tell me that reasoning is wrong.

And the limitation I would rather say than have found: this is a hook, so a command written to defeat a pattern still defeats it. V=-rf; rm $V, a script invoked by name, a delete inside a python -c. That is true of every hook of this kind and it is documented on the page rather than in a footnote. What target resolution buys is precision on the commands agents actually emit, not immunity to one written to get around it.

MIT. Source, both corpora and the measurement scripts: https://github.com/pofky/provenrail
